# HousingInequalityFluidVisualization
Using Python 3.6 and NumPy to create a Physics Fluid Simulation Analogy to visualize national housing and wealth outcome differences from 1967-2020 based on U.S. Census Bureau data. Presented results in this [website](https://kushagraghosh.github.io/HousingInequalityFluidVisualization/). Code in [simulate.py](simulate.py). This visualization is built upon the [stable-fluids repository](https://github.com/GregTJ/stable-fluids) by user GregTJ. 
- My simulation won first place in the 2024 Research Data Visualization Competition at Duke, and I presented my visualization at Duke’s Research & Innovation Week.
- Developed custom Python Stable Fluid-Dynamics Simulation for visualizing housing access as proxied by household income by year (separated by national average on left side and African American household averages on right side of the circle). A fluid emerges in the simulation from each point which races towards the center, which represents the highest maximum household income. However, the fluid's starting velocity is based on the income of the community in that year, which means that the fluids approach the center at different speeds. Moreover, the fluids interact with each other, representing the interactions of groups and the impact of generational wealth/homeownership. Only a few fluids are able to reach the center, and some points (representing housing demographics) are more affected by others.
- Presented exhibition and live performance on December 2-3, 2021 at SLIPPAGE Lab, Rubenstein Arts Center, Duke University. (https://youtu.be/NMVKrOkA-SY?t=34, 0:35-1:02, 2:44-end)
- Presented findings on March 31, 2022 at Duke Human Rights Center’s Global Ideas, Local Impact event.
- Worked with Professor DeFrantz on Bass Connections team for Visualizing Systemic Housing Inequality (Duke SLIPPAGE Lab): https://bassconnections.duke.edu/project-teams/visualizing-systemic-housing-inequality-fall-2021
